[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So the first one was
write a function called nonsense that
takes an input string.
This function contains another function
blab which alerts that string and
is immediately called inside
the function nonsense.
And here's an example of
what blab should look like.
It's just a function alert string, and
so we have our function nonsense here,
I called the parameter string.
And then if we were gonna call nonsense,
we could say nonsense, and we could,
I actually already did that down there.
So we can call nonsense down
here with blah blah blah, so
string is now this blah blah blah.
And then,
we enter through the function body here.
We see that there's another function,
we skip it, we call blab,
and blab then alerts, what?
>> Speaker 2: Blah blah blah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, blah blah blah,
exactly.
So for the second one, we're doing
something a little bit different.
Instead of immediately calling blab,
we're calling it after two seconds.
So we're setTimeout, and
then it will still alert blab.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So for the third one,
instead of calling it inside, or
doing a set time out,
we're just gonna return the function body.
So we see here on line 34,
that we return blab,
which is gonna return the function body.
So blabLater is actually gonna
be the function body here,
and it's gonna alert when we call it.
So if we call blabLater here,
it's going to what?
What is it going to alert?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Kevin do you know?
>> Kevin: Blah blah blah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, exactly.
So it's gonna alert blah blah blah and
then blabAgainLater, we called
it what's that gonna return?
Tanner?
>> Tanner: It's gonna
return blah blah blah?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Close.
It's actually gonna return hehehe.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Because we
called nonsense with hehehe.
So string, and
this case is gonna be hehehe.
Can you guys see that in the back?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
What if we did blabLater here?
What's that gonna alert?
John?
>> John: Could you repeat
the question please?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I'm sorry,
I didn't realize you were on your phone.
If we called blab again later right here,
what is that gonna return?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What
is this gonna alert?
>> John: Blah blah blah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yup, so
it's still gonna alert blah blah blah.
So the fact that BlabAgainLater
is a learning hehehe
doesn't affect the blah blah blah,
if that makes any sense.
[LAUGH] And why is that?
Why are they two separate things?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Grace,
do you remember?
Tanner remembers.
Why Tanner?
>> Tanner: I just want redemption because
you're passing the variables.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, absolutely.
And every time we call that function,
the inner function's creating a new scope.
Even though they both are sharing
the same parent scope, it's new.
It's a new inner scope here for
this function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
this is a function called lastNameTrier.
You pass it your first name, and
it creates this complicated algorithm.
You can try on last names, like little
girls do when they have a crush.
If you have lots of crushes you can see
which one sounds better with your name.
So, how it works is you pass in your first
name so if your first name is Farmer,
you would pass Farmer.
And then you can try on last name Brown
and that's going to log Farmer Brown.
And it's also really
convenient If you really,
really like someone and if you wanna just
write their name all over everything.
You can just like do
this a bunch of times.
I don't think boys do this, but girls
they write their crushes names a lot.
No?
No one?
Okay.
Just me, all right fine.
>> Speaker 6: Do you use those gel pens?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What?
Yeah, with gel pens, absolutely.
You've got to be careful because
they smear, there's an art to it.
Okay, anyway, too much information.
So here, if you want to try
on different Farmer names, so
Farmer Jane Farmer Lin, for example.
>> Kevin: That's for the farmer to find
out if he's gonna marry a Jane or a Lin.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Kevin: So guys could use this one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, absolutely.
It's a gender neutral.
>> Kevin: Or
it could be a female farmer, too.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Kevin: Marry a farmer like Jane or Lin.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Or
if you're giving birth, and
you know that your prodigy's gonna
be a farmer, you can match that.
>> Kevin: It's very unisex, yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, cool.
Anyway, so here we have our function.
So our parent function is here, and
then we have an inner function here.
And again, we're returning that inner.
So how we'd run this is we'd say,
and I forgot to mention,
Katrina is our, these are Katrina's
solutions, she is awesome.
Look her up, add her on Twitter,
all those things.
So Katrina, so var firstNameKatrina
pass the string Katrina,
and then to lastNameTrier.
So the string Katrina is now a first name.
We have this inner function.
We skip it, and we return it.
So, firstNameKatrina now is
the value of this inner function.
So now when we call first name Katrina,
we can pass her last name which not
gonna try to pronounce, Uychaco.
I guess I tried it.
So Uychaco is last name and
then we're just gonna console that log
the first name plus the last name.
The cool thing here is that this
parameter stays the same, Katrina.
We don't actually have
to say var firstName,
like this, = firstName,
or anything like that.
It just holds reference to the parameters
cuz they also live in the scope.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we can just do it like that, and
then you can also try
it with Smith as well.
Any questions on that?
>> Kevin: Just like you can do Fibonacci
series with these because you're restoring
the results of the next.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah you can do a lot
of different things with it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I
think there's one thing.
There's one thing I wanted to mention for
this nonsense function,
a common mistake that I see.
Is that when you are writing
the inner function,
you'll also give it a parameter name of
the same name from the parent function.
And that's not gonna work because
if you don't pass anything to blab,
so when we're calling blab
here with no arguments.
That means string is now undefined and
the most local
the most local variable
value is the one that wins.
So this alert here is going to then alert
undefined because it's being
overwritten by this parameter name.
So if you're seeing that problem,
just double check your inner function's
parameter and make sure that that
function is actually taking an argument,
If it's not then it's gonna be undefined.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, so
we have lastNameTrier, and
then we have this storyWriter.
So this is a function that returns
an object with two methods, one method
is addWords, which will add words to your
function, and the other one is u rays.
So you might imagine that this is like
that game that people play where you start
off with like the beginning of a sentence,
then the next person adds a sentence,
then you go on and on,
you create a big story.
Has anyone played that
like on road trips before?
Not in Minnesota?
Okay some of you have.
Okay.
So we have,
just an example of how we'd use it,
we have this variable farmLoveStory.
And we have storyWriter,
which is a function that we call.
And then farmLoveStory is
now gonna be an object.
That has a property addWords,
which you can then pass a string.
And so this string was,
There was once a lonely cow.
And then that will just return.
There was once a lonely cow, and
then you can add more words, and
then it will concatenate that string.
It will say there was once a lonely cow,
it saw a friendly face,
because we just added this there.
Another example would be story of my life,
which is my code broke, and
then I ate some ice cream.
It's pretty consistent in my day to day.
And then you can erase it.
So that's how you would implement.
That'd be the functionality
of the story writer function.
And so
this is what it looks like on the inside.
So in our closure scope,
we have our story.
Which just starts off empty right?
And then we return this object and
this object has two properties.
The first one's addWords,
which is a method.
And this method takes a string.
And you add the string and
then I put a space in between.
And then I return the story.trim.
And what that does is it just
deletes the trailing space,
so it doesn't print like,
I ate some ice cream, and then space.
It doesn't actually turn them off,
it just shows a copy of the string
without the last space.
So the space actually
still exists in story.
And the other, and
the erase function's pretty simple.
You just set story back
to an empty string.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
Any questions about that?
>> Kevin: I wasn't getting, so when you
run that does, where you see that on the,
it'll actually print
that off one the console?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Kevin: Because I wasn't
getting mine to print out.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: In the console?
>> Kevin: Well, not in the console,
in the-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What do you mean?
This one?
>> Speaker 7: It builds it correctly but
it doesn't opt for the console like
your examples show us it should.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Are you returning?
Are you saying my example isn't?
>> Kevin: No, mine isn't.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Make
sure that you're returning.
>> Kevin: On a trend, but
it just returns story.
>> Speaker 7: Since it's not being
executed from the console, it's not gonna
dump it out there unless you actually
have a console log statement.
If you execute the call
from a console statement,
because that's the return value,
then it would show it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right.
>> Speaker 7: So
when you're refreshing your page,
it doesn't.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Are you
doing it in JS Bin?
>> Speaker 7: I was not.
None of us were using
the strings.js file from yesterday.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, you can just run
it directly in your console like this, and
it should print out.
>> Kevin: It's doing it now.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.